JAVA CHAPTER ONE EXERCISE:

Self-Review Exercises

1.1 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:

a) Computers process data under the control of sets of instructions called PROGRAM.

b) The key logical units of the computer are the INPUT UNIT,OUTPUT UNIT, ARITHEMETIC LOGIC UNIT, MEMORY UNIT, CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT(CPU) and SECONDARY STORAGE UNIT.

c) The three types of languages discussed in the chapter are MACHINE LANGUAGE,LOW-LEVEL LANGUAGE and HIGH LEVEL LANGUAGE.

d) The programs that translate high-level language programs into machine language are
called COMPILERS.

84 Chapter 1 Introduction to Computers, the Internet and Java
e) ANDRIOD is an operating system for mobile devices based on the Linux kernel and Java.

f) RELEASE CANDIDATE software is generally feature complete, (supposedly) bug free and ready for use by the community.

g) The Wii Remote, as well as many smartphones, use a(n) ACCELEROMETER which allows the device to respond to motion.

1.2 Fill in the blanks in each of the following sentences about the Java environment:
a) The JAVA command from the JDK executes a Java application.

b) The JAVAC command from the JDK compiles a Java program.
 
c) A Java source code file must end with the .JAVA file extension.

d) When a Java program is compiled, the file produced by the compiler ends with the .CLASS file extension.

e) The file produced by the Java compiler contains BYTECODES that are executed by the Java Virtual Machine.

1.3 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements (based on Section 1.5):
a) Objects enable the design practice of INFORMATION HIDING although they may know how to communicate with one another across well-defined interfaces, they normally are not allowed to know how other objects are implemented.

b) Java programmers concentrate on creating CLASSES, which contain fields and the set of methods that manipulate those fields and provide services to clients. 

c) The process of analyzing and designing a system from an object-oriented point of view is called  OBJECT-ORIENTED ANALYSIS AND DESIGN(OOAD).

d) A new class of objects can be created conveniently by INHERITANCE the new class (called the subclass) starts with the characteristics of an existing class (called the superclass), possibly customizing them and adding unique characteristics of its own. 

e) THE UNIFIED MODELING LANGUAGE(UML) is a graphical language that allows people who design software systems to use an industry-standard notation to represent them.

f) The size, shape, color and weight of an object are considered ATTRIBUTES of the object’s class.

Exercises
1.4 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:
a) The logical unit that receives information from outside the computer for use by the computer is the INPUT UNIT.

b) The process of instructing the computer to solve a problem is called PROGRAMMING.

c) ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE is a type of computer language that uses English like abbreviations for machine-language instructions.

d) OUTPUT UNIT is a logical unit that sends information which has already been processed by the computer to various devices so that it may be used outside the computer.

e) MEMORY UNIT and SECONDARY STORAGE UNIT are logical units of the computer that retain information.
 Making a Difference 85

f) ARITHMETIC AND LOGIC UNIT is a logical unit of the computer that performs calculations.

g) ARITHMETIC LOGIC UNIT is a logical unit of the computer that makes logical decisions.

h) HIGH LEVEL LANGUAGE are most convenient to the programmer for writing programs quickly and easily. 

i) The only language a computer can directly understand is that computer’s MACHINE LANLUAGE.

j) CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT(CPU) is a logical unit of the computer that coordinates the activities of all the other logical units.

1.5 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:
a) JAVA is a platform independent programming language that was built with the objective of allowing programs to be written once and then run on a large variety of electronic devices without modification.

b) Java Standard Edition(JSE),Java ENTERPRISE EDITION(JEE), and JAVA MICRO EDITION(JME) are the names of the three editions of Java that can be used to build different kinds of applications. 

c) BANDWIDTH is the information-carrying capacity of communication lines, and has rapidly increased over the years and become more affordable. Its availability is a cornerstone for building applications that are significantly connected. 

d) A(n) ASSEMBLER is a translator that can convert early assembly-language programs to machine language with reasonable efficiency. 

1.6 Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements:
a) Java programs normally go through five phases— EDIT, COMPILE, LOAD, VERIFY and EXECUTE.

b) A(n)INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT ENVIROMENT(IDE) provides many tools that support the software development process, such as editors for writing and editing programs, debuggers for locating logic errors in programs, and many other features. 

c) The command java invokes the JAVA VIRTUAL MACHINE(JVM), which executes Java programs.

d) A(n) is a software application that simulates a computer, but hides the underlying operating system and hardware from the programs that interact with it. 
e) The takes the .class files containing the program’s bytecodes and transfers
them to primary memory. 
f) The examines bytecodes to ensure that they’re valid.
1.7 Explain what a just-in-time (JIT) compiler of Java does. 
1.8 One of the world’s most common objects is a wrist watch. Discuss how each of the following terms and concepts applies to the notion of a watch: object, attributes, behaviors, class, inheritance (consider, for example, an alarm clock), modeling, messages, encapsulation, interface and
information hiding.
Making a Difference
The Making-a-Difference exercises will ask you to work on problems that really matter to individuals, communities, countries and the world. 
1.9 (Test Drive: Carbon Footprint Calculator) Some scientists believe that carbon emissions,
especially from the burning of fossil fuels, contribute significantly to global warming and that this
can be combated if individuals take steps to limit their use of carbon-based fuels. Various organizations and individuals are increasingly concerned about their “carbon footprints.” Websites such as
TerraPass 
http://www.terrapass.com/carbon-footprint-calculator-2/
and Carbon Footprint 
http://www.carbonfootprint.com/calculator.aspx
86 Chapter 1 Introduction to Computers, the Internet and Java
provide carbon-footprint calculators. Test drive these calculators to determine your carbon footprint. Exercises in later chapters will ask you to program your own carbon-footprint calculator. To
prepare for this, research the formulas for calculating carbon footprints. 
1.10 (Test Drive: Body-Mass-Index Calculator) By recent estimates, two-thirds of the people in
the United States are overweight and about half of those are obese. This causes significant increases
in illnesses such as diabetes and heart disease. To determine whether a person is overweight or obese,
you can use a measure called the body mass index (BMI). The United States Department of Health
and Human Services provides a BMI calculator at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/
obesity/BMI/bmicalc.htm. Use it to calculate your own BMI. An exercise in Chapter 3 will ask you
to program your own BMI calculator. To prepare for this, research the formulas for calculating BMI. 
1.11 (Attributes of Hybrid Vehicles) In this chapter you learned the basics of classes. Now you’ll
begin “fleshing out” aspects of a class called “Hybrid Vehicle.” Hybrid vehicles are becoming increasingly popular, because they often get much better mileage than purely gasoline-powered vehicles.
Browse the web and study the features of four or five of today’s popular hybrid cars, then list as many
of their hybrid-related attributes as you can. For example, common attributes include city-miles-pergallon and highway-miles-per-gallon. Also list the attributes of the batteries (type, weight, etc.).
1.12 (Gender Neutrality) Some people want to eliminate sexism in all forms of communication.
You’ve been asked to create a program that can process a paragraph of text and replace gender-specific words with gender-neutral ones. Assuming that you’ve been given a list of gender-specific
words and their gender-neutral replacements (e.g., replace “wife” with “spouse,” “man” with “person,” “daughter” with “child” and so on), explain the procedure you’d use to read through a paragraph of text and manually perform these replacements. How might your procedure generate a
strange term like “woperchild?” In Chapter 4, you’ll learn that a more formal term for “procedure”
is “algorithm,” and that an algorithm specifies the steps to be performed and the order in which to
perform them.
1.13 (Intelligent Assistants) Developments in the field of artificial intelligence have been accelerating in recent years. Many companies now offer computerized intelligent assistants, such as IBM’s
Watson, Amazon’s Alexa, Apple’s Siri, Google’s Google Now and Microsoft’s Cortana. Research
these and others and list uses that can improve people’s lives. 
1.14 (Big Data) Research the rapidly growing field of big data. List applications that hold great
promise in fields such as healthcare and scientific research. 
1.15 (Internet of Things) It’s now possible to have a microprocessor at the heart of just about any
device and to connect those devices to the Internet. This has led to the notion of the Internet of
Things (IoT), which already interconnects tens of billions of devices. Research the IoT and indicate
the many ways it’s improving people’s lives